---
  title: "Simulation models for determining ecological mechanisms"
---

## Why is understanding metacommunities important to ecology and evolution?
- the scale at which (many) evolutionary and ecological processes intersect
- landscapes scales up to ranges [@Leibold2003MetCom]
- applied angle. landscape and climate change is causing rapid changes to the structure of Earth's landscapes and biodiversity
- Can we understand? -> Can we predict? -> Can we forecast/manage?
- Ecology is as much a study of emergent properties across scales as it is anything to do with biology.
- The data we collect from these systems is inherently noisy.
- Data we collect is information produced by a combination of "true" mechanisms (interacting in unknown ways) + noise.


## Should we use mechanistic models?

What is an ecological mechanism? A mapping between low dimensional latent/parameter space and information space.

Science is fundamentally a theory of epistemology: a methodology and set of
principles to make justified claims about the world. Descriptive claims about
the world (the Earth goes around the sun,  more species are found near the
equator than far from it) are considered justified if they make predictions that
agree with observed reality.
In order to determine if a descriptive claim agrees
with reality, it must be translated into a quantitative model that makes
predictions about things that can be measured. These quantitative models take
many forms. A subclass of these models, mechanistic models, represent latent
processes that can not be observed or measured, either inherently or due to
technological limitations.

If one abandons the notion that a model represents some "truth" about the the
world, vs. for predictive accuracy. The problem is you cannot tell the
difference --- the induction problem.

Yet there are limits to the scope of simulation models. How do we know when they
are appropriate, versus a ML/non-mechanistic model?

- If a simulation makes data the looks like real data, does it represent the "true" world?
- Does it matter? Newtonian Gravity was "right", until GR was more right.
- Mechanisms that are incorrect that produce information that shates statistical properties with
empirical data is still useful.
- Feynman on Models
