---
  title: "MetacommunityDynamics.jl"
---

## Introduction

### Why do we need software to simulate metacommunity dynamics?

Here we provide examples in how this software can be used to
understand species interaction across space and time based around four mechanisms in @Vellend2010ConSyn.

### What can you do with this?
- Generate sample of metacommunity trajectories based on
mechanistic hypotheses.

## Software and Model Description
Written in Julia, interfaces with data structures in EcoJulia.
Virtual laboratory [@Grimm2005IndBas].

- `Landscape`: a set of locations in space with corresponding environment data.
- `Metaweb`: a set of species which form a species pool, plus an interaction network.
- An `AbstractDynamics` model is composed of `AbstractDispersalModel` + `AbstractSelectionModel` + `AbstractDriftModel`.
- Running `simulate(dynamicsmodel)` where `dynamicsmodel` is of the type `AbstractDynamics` simulates a `MetacommunityTrajectory{MT}` (where `MT` is a `MeasurementType`; at the moment: `Occupancy`, `Abundance`, or `Trait`)
- Simulates `Observer`s with given `ObserverError`.


## Case Studies


### Food web SAR and rank abundance

This case study simulates a food web according to the following dynamics
models: Lotka-Voltera, MacArthur Consumer-Resource, Allometric MacArthur CR. The trajectories are sampled to generated expected 1) species area relationship and 2) rank-abundance curves for each model. 

### Plant-pollinator nestedness

This case study simulates a metaweb of plants and pollinators across space.
We simulate an expected amount of nestedness in the interaction network using
various models of the dynamics of trait evolution
